Readme for Nats service (#4909)
owncloud/ocis: services/nats/README.md

# Nats Service

The nats service is the event broker of the system. It distributes events among all other services and enables other services to communicate asynchrounos.

> Services can `Publish` events to the nats service and nats will store these events on disk respectively distribute these events to other services eventually. Services can `Consume` events from the nats services by registering to a `ConsumerGroup`. Each `ConsumerGroup` is guaranteed to get each event exactly once. In most cases, each service will register it's own `ConsumerGroup` with multiple instances of the same service registering to the same `ConsumerGroup`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Services can `Publish` events to the nats service and nats will store these events on disk respectively distribute these events to other services eventually. Services can `Consume` events from the nats services by registering to a `ConsumerGroup`. Each `ConsumerGroup` is guaranteed to get each event exactly once. In most cases, each service will register it's own `ConsumerGroup`. When there are multiple instances of a service, those instances will usually use the that `ConsumerGroup` as common ressource.
```
Reworded with the hope of easer reading, pls check if the text is correct 😅

## Underlying technology

As the service name suggests, this service is based on [NATS](https://nats.io/) specifically on [NATS Jetstream](https://docs.nats.io/nats-concepts/jetstream) to enable persistence.

## Persistance

To be able to deliver events even after a system or service restart, nats will store events in a folder on the local filesystem. This folder can be specified by setting the `NATS_NATS_STORE_DIR` enviroment variable. If not set, the service will fall back to `$OCIS_BASE_DATA_PATH:/nats`.

## TLS Encryption

> Connections to the nats service (`Publisher`/`Consumer` see above) can be TLS encrypted by setting the corresponding env vars `NATS_TLS_CERT`, `NATS_TLS_KEY` to the cert and key files and `ENABLE_TLS` to true. Checking the certificate of incoming request can be disabled with the `NATS_EVENTS_ENABLE_TLS` environment variable. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Connections to the nats service (`Publisher`/`Consumer` see above) can be TLS encrypted by setting the corresponding env vars `NATS_TLS_CERT`, `NATS_TLS_KEY` to the cert and key files and `ENABLE_TLS` to true. Checking the certificate of incoming request can be disabled with the `NATS_EVENTS_ENABLE_TLS` environment variable.

Certificate files can also be set via global variables starting with `OCIS_`, for details see the environment variable list.

Note that using TLS is highly recommended for productive environments, especially when using container orchestration with Kubernetes.
```

# Nats Service

> The nats service is the event broker of the system. It distributes events among all other services and enables other services to communicate asynchrounos.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The nats service is the event broker of the system. It distributes events among all other services and enables other services to communicate asynchronous.
```

> Services can `Publish` events to the nats service and nats will store these events on disk respectively distribute these events to other services eventually. Services can `Consume` events from the nats services by registering to a `ConsumerGroup`. Each `ConsumerGroup` is guaranteed to get each event exactly once. In most cases, each service will register its own `ConsumerGroup`. When there are multiple instances of a service, those instances will usually use that `ConsumerGroup` as common ressource.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Services can `Publish` events to the nats service and nats will store these events on disk and distribute these events to other services eventually. Services can `Consume` events from the nats service by registering to a `ConsumerGroup`. Each `ConsumerGroup` is guaranteed to get each event exactly once. In most cases, each service will register its own `ConsumerGroup`. When there are multiple instances of a service, those instances will usually use that `ConsumerGroup` as common resource.
```

# Nats Service

> The nats service is the event broker of the system. It distributes events among all other services. This enables other services to communicate asynchrounos.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The nats service is the event broker of the system. It distributes events among all other services and enables other services to communicate asynchrounos.
```

> 
> ## Functionality
> 
> Other services can `Publish` events to the nats service. Nats will store these events and distribute them to other services eventually. Similary other services can
> `Consume` events from the nats services by registering to a `ConsumerGroup`. Each `ConsumerGroup` is guaranteed to get each event exactly once. In most cases each service will register its own
> `ConsumerGroup` with multiple instances of the same service registering to the same `ConsumerGroup`

Reviewer: ```suggestion

Services can `Publish` events to the nats service and nats will store respectively distribute these events to other services eventually. Services can `Consume` events from the nats services by registering to a `ConsumerGroup`. Each `ConsumerGroup` is guaranteed to get each event exactly once. In most cases, each service will register it's own `ConsumerGroup` with multiple instances of the same service registering to the same `ConsumerGroup`.
```
...nats will store...
temporary store?
phyically on disk, in memory only...?

...eventually
I am not clear about what that means as this could be interpreted as "if you like or not" 😅

Author: 1) on disc. See `Persistence` part

2) eventually means `At an unspecified future time`, `In an eventual manner; finally; ultimately.`, `In the end`

## Underlying technology

> As the service name suggests this service is based on [NATS](https://nats.io/) specifically on [NATS Jetstream](https://docs.nats.io/nats-concepts/jetstream) to enable persistence

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As the service name suggests, this service is based on [NATS](https://nats.io/) specifically on [NATS Jetstream](https://docs.nats.io/nats-concepts/jetstream) to enable persistence.
```

## Persistance

> To be able to deliver events even after a restart nats will store events in a folder on the local filesystem. This folder can be specified by setting the `NATS_NATS_STORE_DIR` enviroment variable. If not set the service will fall back to
> `$OCIS_BASE_DATA_PATH:/nats`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To be able to deliver events even after a system or service restart, nats will store events in a folder on the local filesystem. This folder can be specified by setting the `NATS_NATS_STORE_DIR` enviroment variable. If not set, the service will fall back to `$OCIS_BASE_DATA_PATH:/nats`.
```

## TLS Encryption

> Connection to the nats server (`Publisher`/`Consumer` see above) can be TLS encrypted by setting the corresponding envvars `NATS_TLS_CERT`, `NATS_TLS_KEY` to the cert and key files and `ENABLE_TLS` to true. Checking the certificate of incoming request
> can be disabled with the `OCIS_INSECURE` envvar. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Connections to the nats service (`Publisher`/`Consumer` see above) can be TLS encrypted by setting the corresponding env vars `NATS_TLS_CERT`, `NATS_TLS_KEY` to the cert and key files and `ENABLE_TLS` to true. Checking the certificate of incoming request can be disabled with the `OCIS_INSECURE` environment variable. 
```
Is it only the `OCIS_INSECURE` or is there a nats specific one available too?
